Add blog page and first post (#50)
xsf/xmpp-providers-website: content/blog/2022-04-25-start-of-xmpp-providers-website.md

---
title: Start of XMPP Providers Website
date: 2022-04-25
author: melvo
---

## It's Your Choice

Are you looking for an XMPP provider that suits you?

> There is this new website now based on the data of {{< external-link url="https://invent.kde.org/melvo/xmpp-providers" text="XMPP Providers" >}}.

Reviewer: We discussed this recently: It's easier to review and contribute if every sentence is written in a new line. This does not have any effect on rendering, but simplifies maintenance.

**XMPP Providers** has a curated list of providers and tools for filtering them, creating badges and more.
The machine-readable list of providers can be [integrated in XMPP apps](/apps/) to simplify the registration.

We started to get feedback from the community on April 11, 2022.
Since then, we have received many ideas for improvements.
A main topic is automation.

A *curated* provider list cannot be completely automatically maintained.
Several steps need to be reviewed before updating the list.
But there are certain steps and recurring tasks that can be automated.

> We need to find ways in order to simplify the maintenance while still providing results that are transparent to average users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to find ways to simplify the maintenance while still providing results that are transparent to average users.
```

## We Need Your Help

> If you are a developer, please help us with automating the currently manual tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a developer, please help us with automating the tasks we currently have to do manually.
```

---

## It's Your Choice

Are you looking for an XMPP provider that suits you?
There is this new website now based on the data of {{< external-link url="https://invent.kde.org/melvo/xmpp-providers" text="XMPP Providers" >}}.
**XMPP Providers** has a curated list of providers and tools for filtering them, creating badges and more.

Each provider is [categorized](/faq/#why-do-we-collect-and-categorize-providers) based on its properties to make decisions for users as easy as possible.
All criteria for the categorization are carefully considered and clearly communicated.
The source of each property is referenced for transparency and maintainability.
In addition, the machine-readable list of providers can be [integrated in XMPP apps](/apps/) to simplify the registration.

We started XMPP Providers in January 2021 with the focus on client developers.
In order to target also users and providers and receive new contributions, we began to create this website in March 2022.
It helps users to find suitable providers for their installed apps or even get an app that already integrates XMPP Providers.
Providers can easily see how they can improve their service or website for a better category.

> And even client developers should get a good understand of what XMPP Providers is and how it can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, client developers should get a good understanding of what XMPP Providers is and how it can be used.
```
